#summary Scenarios to realize

a) Simulation Boost

A chemistry (further planned scenarios apply to fields of mathematics, bio-informatics, physics, or biology) student needs to run a simulation - here of a reaction. The student has to do this multiple times with different input parameters. To accelerate getting the results the student asks colleagues and friends to share their computational power.

b) Dynamic Rendering Grid

Some arts students or a small movie studio want to render a part of an animation movie (compare for example Elephant's dream [http://www.elephantsdream.org/]). To speed up this process they create in their instant messenger a chat group and start the dynamic GRID to carry out the distributed rendering task. Extensions to this scenarios will make use of rendering static scenes with povray [http://www.povray.org/] or support video or sound encoding.

c) Language Analysis

Any statistical language processing technique (text classification, machine translation, parsing, etc.) requires testing, and in case there's not enough data to define separate training/testing sets, [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-validation N-fold cross-validation] is a common choice. The scenario is the following: all the available data is split into N parts, and the experiment is run N independent times -- each time one of the data parts is used for testing and the rest -- for training. A common value for N can be around 10. Thus each experiment has independent train/test data defined and all of the data gets covered. After the N experiments are ready, the general result is comuted based on all of them. With parallel computation the process can be sped up up to N times.

*Example*: phrase-based statistical machine translation. The [http://wt.jrc.it/lt/Acquis/ training/testing data] consists of 24.6 mln words in estonian. The [http://www.statmt.org/moses/ software] is opensource (c++, perl, bash). Average time of training a single translation system for a pair of languages on the given corpus with a [http://www.balticgrid.org/ BalticGrid] single computer: 8 hours.